# Configure Terraform for AWS

Follow these steps to configure AWS credentials and set up Terraform for seamless integration with AWS.

1. **Install AWS CLI (Command Line Interface)**:

Ensure that the AWS CLI is installed on your machine. You can download and install it from the official AWS CLI download page. (https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)

- You can follow the steps mentioned in this link to install and configure AWS CLI https://github.com/AzmathShaik29/Observability/blob/main/Day-1/Port%20Forwarding%20Process.md#how-to-conffigure-aws-cli


2. **Create an AWS IAM User**:

To interact with AWS programmatically, create an IAM (Identity and Access Management) user with the necessary permissions. Follow these steps:

a. Log in to the AWS Management Console with an account that has administrative privileges.

b. Navigate to the IAM service.

c. Click on Users in the left navigation pane, then click Add user.

  - Choose a username and select Programmatic access as the access type, then click Next: Permissions.
  - Attach the required policies to this user. At a minimum, attach the AmazonEC2FullAccess policy for basic EC2 operations. If access to other AWS services is needed, attach the relevant policies accordingly.
  - Review the user's configuration and create the user.

🔹 Important: Save the **Access Key ID** and **Secret Access Key** displayed after user creation, as you will need them for Terraform configuration.

3. **Configure AWS CLI Credentials**:

Set up your AWS credentials using the AWS CLI. Open a terminal and run:

```
aws configure
```

You will be prompted to enter your **AWS Access Key ID**, **Secret Access Key**, **default region**, and **default output format**. Provide the credentials obtained in the previous step.
